GLFW library
==============================================

GLFW (Graphics Library Framework) is an open-source, cross-platform library that handles 
all the platform-specific "plumbing" required to get an OpenGL or Vulkan application 
up and running. While libraries like GLEW manage the "what" (OpenGL functions/extensions),
GLFW manages the "where" and "how" (the window and user interaction).

OpenGL itself is only concerned with rendering, and doesn't include functions for creating
windows or handling input. GLFW fills this gap by providing a simple, uniform API for these
tasks. 

GLFW's main jobs can be broken down into a few key areas:

- Window and Context Creation: This is its primary task. GLFW allows you to create a window,
  specify its size and title, and crucially, create a valid OpenGL or OpenGL ES context
  attached to that window. This context is what your rendering commands will draw into.

- Input Event Handling: It abstracts the complexities of handling user input. You can easily
  set up callbacks to be notified of keyboard key presses, mouse movement, button clicks, 
  and joystick connections, all in a uniform way across different platforms.

- Cross-Platform Abstraction: GLFW supports Windows, macOS, and Linux (via Wayland and X11).
  You write your window and input code once using the GLFW API, and it works on all these
  operating systems without modification.

- Utility Functions: It provides basic but essential utilities like a high-resolution timer
  glfwGetTime() for animation and frame-rate management.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   260225-glfw-on-linux
   260225-glfw-on-windows

260225, updated 25.2.2026/pekka
